.\"# ##########################################################################
.\"# SPDX-FileComment: Man page for kz-install.sh
.\"#
.\"# SPDX-FileCopyrightText: Karel Zimmer <info@karelzimmer.nl>
.\"# SPDX-License-Identifier: CC0-1.0
.\"# ##########################################################################

.TH "KZ-INSTALL.SH" "5" "4.2.1" "kz" "File format"

.SH NAME
kz-install.sh - install file for use with kz install

.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY kz-install.sh
.YS

.SH DESCRIPTION
This file contains commands to process as an install file with kz install.
.br
Commands containing personal information, such as a username, are included in
an encrypted install file, kz-install.sh.gpg.
.sp
The install file contains so-called \fBapp record\fRs and
\fBcommand record\fRs.
.sp
The \fBapp record\fR indicates where the commands should be executed and is
followed by one or more lines of commands (\fBcommand record\fRs).
.sp
An \fBapp record\fR consists of four parts, each part separated by at least one
space, like '# INSTALL <app> <host>' and '# REMOVE <app> <host>'.
.br
1. #        (comment symbol)
.br
2. <action> (INSTALL or REMOVE)
.br
3. <app>    (the name of the app)
.br
4. <host>   (the name of the computer or computers)
.br
This is followed by one or more \fBcommand record\fRs containing commands for
<app>.
.sp
See \fBTable 1\fR which \fBtypes\fR of records there are and how these records
are processed.
.sp
See \fBTable 2\fR for an \fBexample\fR of these records and how these records
are processed.
More examples can be seen through the \fBkz install --browse\fR and
\fBkz install --cat\fR commands.
.LP
.B Table 1. Record types and their processing
.TS
allbox tab(:);
lb | lb.
T{
Record
T}:T{
Description
T}
.T&
l | l
l | l.
T{
# INSTALL <app> <host>
T}:T{
Install the app <app> on <host> (\fBapp record\fR)
T}
T{
# Comment...
T}:T{
Comment line (none, one or more)
T}
T{
Command
T}:T{
Install app command (one or more \fBcommand record\fRs)
T}
T{
T}:T{
Empty line (none, one or more)
T}
T{
# REMOVE <app> <host>
T}:T{
Remove the app <app> from <host> (\fBapp record\fR for option \fB-r\fR,
\fB--remove\fR)
T}
T{
Command
T}:T{
Remove app command (one or more \fBcommand record\fRs)
T}
.TE
.LP
.B Table 2. Example of records and their processing
.TS
box tab(:);
lb | lb.
T{
Record
T}:T{
Description
T}
.T&
- | -
l | l
l | l.
T{
# INSTALL libreoffice *
T}:T{
Install app libreoffice on any computer, see [1].
T}
T{
sudo apt-get install --assume-yes libreoffice
T}:T{
T}
T{
T}:T{
T}
T{
# REMOVE libreoffice *
T}:T{
Remove app libreoffice from any computer, see [1].
T}
T{
sudo apt-get remove --purge --assume-yes libreoffice
T}:T{
T}
T{
T}:T{
T}
T{
# INSTALL ufw pc01
T}:T{
Install app ufw only on pc01, see [2].
T}
T{
sudo apt-get install --assume-yes gufw
T}:T{
T}
T{
T}:T{
T}
T{
# INSTALL kvm pc01 pc02
T}:T{
Install app kvm on pc01 and pc02, see [3].
T}
T{
sudo apt-get install --assume-yes qemu-kvm
T}:T{
T}
T{
T}:T{
T}
T{
# INSTALL google-earth #none
T}:T{
Do not install Google Earth by default, see [4].
T}
T{
sudo apt-get install --assume-yes google-earth
T}:T{
T}
.TE
.sp
.sp
[1]
.br
The line with '*' causes the associated commands to run on all computers.
.sp
[2]
.br
The line with 'pc01' ensures that the associated commands are executed only on
host pc01 by default.
.br
The app can still be installed on another computer with the command 'kz instal\
l google-earth'.
.sp
[3]
.br
The line with 'pc01 pc02' ensures that the associated commands are executed
only on pc01 and pc02 by default.
.br
The app can still be installed on another computer with the command 'kz instal\
l kvm'.
.sp
[4]
.br
The line with '#none' ensures that the associated commands are not executed on
a computer by default (NOTE: '#none' is not a valid computername and will
therefore never be selected by default).
.br
The app can still be installed with the command 'kz install google-earth'.
.br
A line with '#gpg' indicates that the command in question is executed in
kz-install.sh.gpg, the encrypted version of kz-install.sh with personal
information such as a username.

.SH EXAMPLES
.EX
# install gnome-tweaks on pc01 pc06 pc07
# Adjust advanced settings.
if grep --quiet debian  /etc/os-release && [[ -n ${DISPLAY-} ]]; then sudo apt\
-get install --assume-yes gnome-tweaks; fi
if grep --quiet rhel /etc/os-release && [[ -n ${DISPLAY-} ]]; then sudo dnf\
 install --assumeyes gnome-tweaks; fi
.sp
.RS
The "if grep --quiet debian  /etc/os-release" will check if it is a Debian or \
Debian-based system, such as Ubuntu.
.br
Grep on Debian for Debian-only, likewise for ubuntu (Ubuntu or Ubuntu-based) a\
nd Ubuntu (Ubuntu-only).
.sp
The "if grep --quiet rhel /etc/os-release" will check if it is a Red Hat or\
 Red Hat-based system, such as Rocky Linux.
The "if [[ -n ${DISPLAY-} ]]" is to check if there is a graphical environment.
.RE
.EE

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBkz-install\fR(1),
\fBkz-install.sh.gpg\fR(5)
