.\"############################################################################
.\"# SPDX-FileComment: Man page for kz-install.sh
.\"#
.\"# SPDX-FileCopyrightText: Karel Zimmer <info@karelzimmer.nl>
.\"# SPDX-License-Identifier: CC0-1.0
.\"############################################################################

.TH "KZ-INSTALL.SH" "7" "4.2.1" "kz" "File format"

.SH NAME
kz-install.sh - Install file for use with kz install

.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY kz-install.sh
.YS

.SH DESCRIPTION
This file contains commands to process as an install file with kz install.
.sp
The install file contains so-called \fBApp records\fR and \fBCommand
records\fR.
.sp
See \fBTable 1\fR which \fBtypes\fR of records there are and how these records
are processed.
.sp
See \fBTable 2\fR for an \fBexample\fR of these records and how these records
are processed.
More examples can be seen through the \fBkz install --cat\fR command.
.LP
.B Table 1. Record types and their processing
.TS
allbox tab(:);
lb | lb.
T{
Record
T}:T{
Description
T}
.T&
l | l
l | l.
T{
# Install app \fI<app>\fR on host <host>...
T}:T{
Install the app \fI<app>\fR on host <host>s (\fBApp record\fR)
T}
T{
# Comment...
T}:T{
Comment line (none, one or more)
T}
T{
Command
T}:T{
Install app command (one or more \fBCommand records\fR)
T}
T{
T}:T{
Empty line (none, one or more)
T}
.TE
.LP
.B Table 2. Example of records and their processing
.TS
box tab(:);
lb | lb.
T{
Record
T}:T{
Description
T}
.T&
- | -
l | l
l | l.
T{
# Install app gnome-gmail on host *
T}:T{
Install app gnome-gmail on any computer, see [1].
T}
T{
sudo apt-get install --assume-yes gnome-gmail
T}:T{
T}
T{
T}:T{
T}
T{
# Install app ufw on host pc01
T}:T{
Install app ufw only on host pc01, see [2].
T}
T{
sudo apt-get install --assume-yes gufw
T}:T{
T}
T{
T}:T{
T}
T{
# Install app kvm on host pc01 pc02
T}:T{
Install app kvm on host pc01 and pc02, see [3].
T}
T{
sudo apt-get install --assume-yes qemu-kvm
T}:T{
T}
T{
T}:T{
T}
T{
# Install app google-earth on host #none
T}:T{
Do not install Google Earth by default, see [4].
T}
T{
sudo apt-get install --assume-yes google-earth
T}:T{
T}
.TE
.sp
.sp
[1]
.br
The line with '*' causes the associated commands to run on all computers.
.sp
[2]
.br
The line with 'pc01' ensures that the associated commands are executed only on
host pc01 by default.
.br
The app can still be installed on another computer with the command 'kz instal\
l google-earth'.
.sp
[3]
.br
The line with 'pc01 pc02' ensures that the associated commands are executed
only on host pc01 and pc02 by default.
.br
The app can still be installed on another computer with the command 'kz instal\
l kvm'.
.sp
[4]
.br
The line with '#none' ensures that the associated commands are not executed on
a computer by default (NOTE: '#none' is not a valid computername and will
therefore never be selected by default).
.br
The app can still be installed with the command 'kz install google-earth'.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBkz-install\fR(1)
