.\"############################################################################
.\"# SPDX-FileComment: Man page for kz-setup.sh
.\"#
.\"# SPDX-FileCopyrightText: Karel Zimmer <info@karelzimmer.nl>
.\"# SPDX-License-Identifier: CC0-1.0
.\"############################################################################

.TH "KZ-SETUP.SH" "7" "4.2.1" "kz" "File format"

.SH NAME
kz-setup.sh - Setup file for use with kz install

.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY kz-setup.sh
.YS

.SH DESCRIPTION
This file contains commands to process as an setup file with kz setup.
.sp
The setup file contains so-called \fBApp records\fR and \fBCommand records\fR.
.sp
See \fBTable 1\fR for which \fBtypes\fR records there are and how these records
are processed.
.sp
See \fBTable 2\fR for an \fBexample\fR of these records in file
kz-setup.sh.
.sp
More examples can be seen through the \fBkz setup --browse\fR command.
.LP
.B Table 1. Record types and their processing
.TS
allbox tab(:);
lb | lb.
T{
Record
T}:T{
Description
T}
.T&
l | l
l | l
l | l
l | l.
T{
# Setup \fI<app>\fR on *
T}:T{
Set up \fI<app>\fR on any computer (\fBApp record\fR)
T}
T{
# Setup \fI<app>\fR on ?
T}:T{
Set up \fI<app>\fR on a specific computer (\fBApp record\fR)
T}
T{
# Comment...
T}:T{
Comment line (none, one or more)
T}
T{
Command
T}:T{
Setup command (one or more \fBCommand records\fR)
T}
T{
T}:T{
Empty line (none, one or more)
T}
T{
# Reset \fI<app>\fR on *
T}:T{
Reset \fI<app>\fR on any computer (\fBApp record\fR for option reset)
T}
T{
# Reset \fI<app>\fR on ?
T}:T{
Reset \fI<app>\fR on a specific computer (\fBApp record\fR for option reset)
T}
T{
Command
T}:T{
Reset command (one or more \fBCommand records\fR)
T}
.TE
.LP
.B Table 2. Example of records and their processing
.TS
box tab(:);
lb | lb.
T{
Record
T}:T{
Description
T}
.T&
- | -
l | l
l | l.
T{
# Setup google-chrome for *
T}:T{
Set up google-chrome on any computer, see [1]
T}
T{
kz-desktop --addbef=google-chrome
T}:T{
T}
T{
T}:T{
T}
T{
# Reset google-chrome for *
T}:T{
Reset google-chrome on any computer, see [1]
T}
T{
kz-desktop --delete=google-chrome
T}:T{
T}
T{
T}:T{
T}
T{
# Setup google-earth for ?
T}:T{
Do not set up Google Earth by default, see [2]
T}
T{
kz-desktop --addaft=google-earth
T}:T{
T}
.TE
.sp
.sp
[1]
.br
The line with '*' causes the associated commands to run on all computers.
.sp
[2]
.br
The line with '?' ensures that the associated commands are not executed by
default.
.br
The app can still be set up with the command 'kz setup google-earth'.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBkz-install\fR(1)
