.\"# ##########################################################################
.\"# SPDX-FileComment: Man page for kz-backup
.\"#
.\"# SPDX-FileCopyrightText: Karel Zimmer <info@karelzimmer.nl>
.\"# SPDX-License-Identifier: CC0-1.0
.\"# ##########################################################################

.TH "KZ-BACKUP" "1" "4.2.1" "kz" "User commands"

.SH NAME
kz-backup - make backup

.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY kz\ backup
[<options>]
.YS

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBkz backup\fR makes a backup copy of the Home folder.
.sp
In a desktop environment, command \fBkz backup\fR can be runs in graphical
mode by searching for \fBback\fR, click on \fBKZ Make backup\fR pictogram.
.sp
Before a backup is made, the set desktop background, user picture, favorites,
and WiFi information are saved. See \fBFILES\fR section below for the exact
location.
.sp
The backup is placed on a mounted usb medium such as a USB external hard disk
in folder \fBBACKUP-<username>@<computername>\fR, this folder is created as
needed, for example /media/karel/backupdisk/BACKUP_pc-of-karel_karel for Karel
at pc-of-karel.
.sp
With option \fB-C\fR, \fB--cli\fR, \fBkz backup\fR runs in command-line mode
(CLI).
.sp
With option \fB-g\fR, \fB--gui\fR, \fBkz backup\fR runs in graphical mode
(GUI), a desktop environment is required.
.sp
Option \fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR shows a short description of the available
options and exits.
.sp
Option \fB-m\fR, \fB--manual\fR shows the manual page and exits.
.sp
With option \fB-t\fR, \fB--target\fR \fI<directory>\fR another location can be
specified. For example /media/karel/usbstick instead of
/media/karel/backupdisk.
.sp
With option \fB-T\fR, \fB--tui\fR, \fBkz backup\fR runs in text-based mode
(TUI), this is the default mode.
.sp
Option \fB-u\fR, \fB--usage\fR shows a short usage summary and exits.
.sp
Option \fB-v\fR, \fB--version\fR shows the program version, author, and
copyright, and exits.
.sp
Locations ignored by \fBkz backup\fR are directories managed by Git.
Example: ~/kz-scripts is skipped due to the presence of ~/kz-scripts/.git.
.sp
Tool rsync is used to create the backup.
.br
Files deleted from the Home folder are also removed from the backup (rsync's
--delete option is used).
.sp
If errors are found, an overview of the error messages is given.
.sp
With command \fBkz restore\fR the Home folder can be restored.

.SH OPTIONS
Mandatory arguments to long options are mandatory for short options too.
.TP
\fB-C\fR, \fB--cli\fR
Run in command-line mode (CLI).
.TP
\fB-g\fR, \fB--gui\fR
Run in graphical mode (GUI).
.TP
\fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR
Show a short description of the available options.
.TP
\fB-m\fR, \fB--manual\fR
Show the manual page.
.TP
\fB-t\fR, \fB--target \fI<directory>\fR
Place the backup in the specified directory.
.TP
\fB-T\fR, \fB--tui\fR
Run in text-based mode (TUI), this is the default mode.
.TP
\fB-u\fR, \fB--usage\fR
Show a short usage summary.
.TP
\fB-v\fR, \fB--version\fR
Show the version, author, and copyright.

.SH EXIT STATUS
Normally exit value 0 is returned; if an error occurs, the exit value is not
equal to 0.

.SH FILES
~/.kz-backup-settings/apps.txt
.RS
List of installed apps. For checking installation.
.RE
.sp
~/.kz-backup-settings/avatar.ico
.RS
Backup of user avatar, if available.
.RE
.sp
~/.kz-backup-settings/avatar.txt
.RS
Instructions for restoring the user avatar, if available.
.RE
.sp
~/.kz-backup-settings.ico
.RS
Backup of desktop background, if available.
.RE
.sp
~/.kz-backup-settings/desktop.txt
.RS
Instructions for restoring the desktop background, if available.
.RE
.sp
~/.kz-backup-settings/favorites.txt
.RS
Set favorites in the favorites bar (dash/dock). For checking set up.
.RE
.sp
~/.kz-backup-settings/users.txt
.RS
Instructions for adding additional users.
.RE
.sp
~/.kz-backup-settings/wifi.txt
.RS
Saved WiFi information.
.RE
.sp
/tmp/kz-backup-XXXXXXXXXX.exclude
.RS
Exclude file, e.g. kz-backup-4VkzCfrDsU.exclude.
.RE
.sp
/tmp/kz-backup-error-XXXXXXXXXX.log
.RS
Error log file, e.g. kz-backup-error-Nndq1y3iFo.log.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.EX
.sp
\fBkz backup\fR
.RS
Make a backup copy of the Home folder.
Starter \fBKZ Make a backup\fR is also available for this in a desktop
environment.
.RE
.sp
\fBkz backup --target /media/karel/usbstick\fR
.RS
Back up the Home folder of Karel on pc-of-karel to /media/karel/usbstick in the
folder BACKUP_pc-of-karel_karel (this folder will be created as needed).
.RE
.EE

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBkz\fR(1),
\fBkz_common.sh\fR(1),
\fBkz-menu\fR(1),
\fBkz-restore\fR(1)

.SH KZ
Part of the \fBkz\fR(1) package.

.SH NOTES
.IP " 1." 4
Checklist install
.RS 4
.UR https://karelzimmer.nl/en
.UE
.RE
.IP " 2." 4
Day 2 Operations
.RS 4
\fBkz backup\fR is mainly used for Day 2 Operations. See \fBkz\fR(1) for an
explanation.
.RE
