.\"############################################################################
.\"# SPDX-FileComment: Man page for kz-build
.\"#
.\"# SPDX-FileCopyrightText: Karel Zimmer <info@karelzimmer.nl>
.\"# SPDX-License-Identifier: CC0-1.0
.\"############################################################################
.\"
.TH "KZ-BUILD" "1" "4.2.1" "KZ" "Kz Manual"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
kz-build \- Build package kz
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kz build
[OPTION...]
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBkz build\fR builds the package kz and the website https://karelzimmer.nl.
.sp
The built  package, kz, will then be installed locally.
.sp
This is to develop and test the package, the website, and the installation, and
to distribute it later with \fBkz deploy\fR.
.sp
The local kz-docs and kz-scripts Git repositories are used as inputs. Text
files are converted into pdf files with 'lowriter convert-to pdf'.
.sp
With command \fBkz deploy\fR the website (including package kz) can be placed
on the internet so that the scripts and documents are available for general
use.
.sp
Command \fBkz build\fR is also called from \fBkz deploy\fR.
.sp
Package kz populates the following system directories:
.br
/etc/
.RS
Policy files for Firefox and Chrome, and package kz build ID.
.RE
.sp
/usr/bin/
.RS
Scripts (kz*)
.RE
.sp
/usr/share/applications/
.RS
Desktop configuration files (kz*.desktop)
.RE
.sp
/usr/share/bash-completion/completions/
.RS
Tab completion scripts (kz*)
.RE
.sp
/usr/share/locale/nl/
.RS
Dutch translation file (kz.mo)
.RE
.sp
/usr/share/man/man1/
.RS
Manual pages (EN)
.RE
.sp
/usr/share/man/nl/man1/
.RS
Manual pages (NL)
.RE
.sp
/usr/share/polkit-1/actions/
.RS
PolicyKit action definition files (nl.karelzimmer.kz*.policy)
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR
Show a short description of the available options.
.TP
\fB-m\fR, \fB--manual\fR
Show the manual page.
.TP
\fB-u\fR, \fB--usage\fR
Show the available options.
.TP
\fB-v\fR, \fB--version\fR
Display the version, author, and copyright.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXIT STATUS
Normally exit value 0 is returned; if an error occurs, the exit value is not
equal to 0.
.\"
.\"
.SH DIRECTORIES
~/kz-deb/src/
.RS
Source files package kz (Git).
.RE
.sp
~/kz-deb/dist/
.RS
Distribution files package kz.
.RE
.sp
~/kz-docs/
.RS
Checklists (Git).
.RE
.sp
~/kz-scripts/
.RS
Scripts (Git).
Includes manual pages (usr/share/man/man1/ and usr/share/man/nl/man1/),
Tab completion scripts (usr/share/bash-completion/completions/),
Desktop configuration files (usr/share/applications/), en
PolicyKit action definition files (usr/share/policypolkit-1/actions/).
.RE
.sp
~/kz-upload/src/
.RS
Source files website karelzimmer.nl (Git).
.RE
.sp
~/kz-upload/dist/
.RS
Distribution files website karelzimmer.nl.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
~/bin/rchecklink
.RS
Reverse checklink.
.RE
.sp
~/kz-upload/dist/assets/kz/kz_4.2.1_all.deb
.RS
Debian package kz.
.RE
.sp
/etc/kz-build.id
.RS
Build ID file.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTES
.IP " 1." 4
CI/CD and Day 1 Operations
.RS 4
\fBkz build\fR is mainly used for \fBCI/CD\fR and \fBDay 1 Operations\fR. See
\fBkz\fR(1) for an explanation.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Karel Zimmer <info@karelzimmer.nl>.
.br
CC0 1.0 Universal <https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0>.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBkz\fR(1),
\fBkz_common.sh\fR(1),
\fBkz-check\fR(1),
\fBkz-deploy\fR(1),
\fBhttps://karelzimmer.nl/en\fR,
\fBmogen\fR,
\fBrchecklink\fR
.\"
.\"
.SH KZ
Part of the \fBkz\fR(1) package, named after its creator, Karel Zimmer.
.\"
.\"
.SH AVAILABILITY
Command \fBkz build\fR is part of the \fBkz\fR package and is available on
Karel Zimmer's website <https://karelzimmer.nl/en>, under Linux.
