.\"############################################################################
.\"# Man page for kz-check.
.\"#
.\"# Written Karel Zimmer <info@karelzimmer.nl>, CC0 1.0 Universal
.\"# <https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0>, 2023.
.\"############################################################################
.\"
.TH "KZ-CHECK" "1" "2015" "kz 4.2.1" "Kz Manual"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
kz-check \- Check scripts.
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSISmsg
.B kz check
[OPTION...]
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBkz check\fR performs a check.
.sp
Performs checks that check scripts content and with shellcheck and pycodestyle.
.sp
Among other things, the following are checked:
.br
tags        - TODO/FIXME/BUG-tags
.br
lines       - number of lines and line length
.br
fields      - such as release year
.br
spaces      - trailing spaces
.br
shellcheck  - shell script analyse tool
.br
pycodestyle - Python script analyse tool
.sp
Command \fBkz check\fR is also called from \fBkz build\fR.
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-u\fR, \fB--usage\fR
Show the available options.
.TP
\fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR
Show a short description of the available options.
.TP
\fB-v\fR, \fB--version\fR
Display the version, author, and copyright.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXIT STATUS
Normally exit value 0 is returned; if an error occurs, the exit value is not
equal to 0.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTES
.IP " 1." 4
Day 1 Operations and CI/CD
.RS 4
\fBkz check\fR is mainly used for \fBDay 1 Operations\fR and \fBCI/CD\fR. See
\fBkz\fR(1) for an explanation.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Karel Zimmer <info@karelzimmer.nl>, CC0 1.0 Universal
<https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0>, 2015.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBkz\fR(1),
\fBkz_common.sh\fR(1),
\fBkz-build\fR(1),
\fBkz-deploy\fR(1),
\fBhttps://karelzimmer.nl\fR
.\"
.\"
.SH KZ
Part of the \fBkz\fR(1) package, named after its creator, Karel Zimmer.
.\"
.\"
.SH AVAILABILITY
Command \fBkz check\fR is part of the \fBkz\fR package and is available on
Karel Zimmer's website <https://karelzimmer.nl/html/en/linux.html#scripts>.
