.\"############################################################################
.\"# SPDX-FileComment: Man page for kz-deb
.\"#
.\"# SPDX-FileCopyrightText: Karel Zimmer <info@karelzimmer.nl>
.\"# SPDX-License-Identifier: CC0-1.0
.\"############################################################################
.\"
.TH "KZ-DEB" "1" "4.2.1" "KZ" "Kz Manual"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
kz-deb \- Download and install package kz
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kz deb
[OPTION...]
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBkz deb\fR downloads and installs package kz.
.sp
Package kz contains scripts to install Debian and Debian-based systems such as
Ubuntu smoothly and usably.
.sp
For the latest version of \fBkz deb\fR and kz package, launch a Terminal and
run (copy of kz will be saved and later deleted):
.br
    \fBwdeb karelzimmer.nl/deb\fR
.br
    \fBbash deb\fR
.br
 or (same as before, now on 1 line):
.br
    \fBwdeb karelzimmer.nl/deb; bash deb\fR
.br
 or (no copy of deb is saved):
.br
    \fBwdeb -O- karelzimmer.nl/deb | bash\fR
.br
 or (if curl is installed, no copy):
.br
    \fBcurl -L karelzimmer.nl/deb | bash\fR
.br
 or (if package kz is already installed):
.br
    \fBkz deb\fR
.sp
If necessary, for example Debian < 12, the downloaded package will be
repackaged as a package using xz, and then the repackaged package will be
installed.
.sp
With command \fBkz dev\fR the development environment can be placed on the
local computer so that the package and the website can be developed and tested.
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR
Show a short description of the available options.
.TP
\fB-m\fR, \fB--manual\fR
Show the manual page.
.TP
\fB-u\fR, \fB--usage\fR
Show the available options.
.TP
\fB-v\fR, \fB--version\fR
Show the version, author, and copyright.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXIT STATUS
Normally exit value 0 is returned; if an error occurs, the exit value is not
equal to 0.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTES
.IP " 1." 4
IaC en Day 1 Operations
.RS 4
\fBkz deb\fR is mainly used for \fBIaC\fR and \fBDay 1 Operations\fR. See
\fBkz\fR(1) for an explanation.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
Download a website? Then run:
.br
\fBmkdir --parents ~/uploads/karelzimmer.nl/httpdocs
.br
lftp --user <USER> --password <PASSWORD> <HOST> -e\
 'set ssl:verify-certificate no; mirror --delete --verbose /httpdocs
~/uploads/karelzimmer.nl/httpdocs; exit'\fR
.sp
Upload a website? Then run:
.br
\fBlftp --user <USER> --password <PASSWORD> <HOST> -e\
 'set ssl:verify-certificate no; mirror --reverse --delete --verbose /httpdocs
~/uploads/karelzimmer.nl/httpdocs; exit'\fR
.sp
Download a single file? Then run:
.br
\fBlftp --user <USER> --password <PASSWORD> <HOST> -e\
 'set ssl:verify-certificate no; get -O /httpdocs/<DIR>
~/uploads/karelzimmer.nl/httpdocs/<DIR>/<FILE>; exit'\fR
.sp
Upload a single file? Then run:
.br
\fBlftp --user <USER> --password <PASSWORD> <HOST> -e\
 'set ssl:verify-certificate no; put -O /httpdocs/<DIR>
~/uploads/karelzimmer.nl/httpdocs/<DIR>/<FILE>; exit'\fR
.\"
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Karel Zimmer <info@karelzimmer.nl>.
.br
License CC0 1.0 <https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0>.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBkz\fR(1),
\fBkz_common.sh\fR(1),
\fBkz-dev\fR(1),
\fBhttps://karelzimmer.nl/en\fR
.\"
.\"
.SH KZ
Part of the \fBkz\fR(1) package, named after its creator, Karel Zimmer.
.\"
.\"
.SH AVAILABILITY
Command \fBkz deb\fR is part of the \fBkz\fR package and is available on
Karel Zimmer's website <https://karelzimmer.nl/en>, under Linux.
