.\"# ##########################################################################
.\"# SPDX-FileComment: Man page for kz-desktop
.\"#
.\"# SPDX-FileCopyrightText: Karel Zimmer <info@karelzimmer.nl>
.\"# SPDX-License-Identifier: CC0-1.0
.\"# ##########################################################################

.TH "KZ-DESKTOP" "1" "4.2.1" "kz" "User commands"

.SH NAME
kz-desktop - change desktop environment

.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY kz\ desktop
[<options>]
.YS

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBkz desktop\fR helps to change the desktop environment.
.sp
\fBkz desktop\fR:
.RS
- only works on systems using a desktop environment,
.br
- shows changes in the configuration database,
.br
- can add or delete an application icon (favorite).
.RE
.sp
Option \fB-a\fR, \fB--addaft\fR \fI<favorite>\fR adds the specified application
icon (favorite) to the end of the favorites bar (dash, dock).
.sp
Option \fB-b\fR, \fB--addbef\fR \fI<favorite>\fR adds the specified application
icon (favorite) to the the beginning of the favorites bar (dash, dock).
.sp
Option \fB-d\fR, \fB--delete\fR \fI<favorite>\fR removes the specified
application icon (favorite) from favorites bar (dash, dock).
.sp
If an application icon (favorite) with the specified name already exists, it
will not be added again.
.br
If an application icon (favorite) has been added at the top to be placed at the
bottom, the existing one must first be removed with option \fB-d\fR,
\fB--delete\fR.
.br
File \fI<favorite>\fR.desktop must exist in one of the application directories
such as /usr/share/applications or /var/lib/snapd/desktop/applications.
.sp
With option \fB-l\fR, \fB--list\fR the current favorites are displayed.
.sp
With option \fB-r\fR, \fB--reset\fR the favorites bar (dash, dock) is reset
with default favourites.
.sp
If no options are specified, \fBkz desktop\fR shows changes in the
configuration database after a change in the desktop environment.
.br
The following is performed:
.sp
.RS
1. Capture configuration database content before changing the desktop
environment.
.br
2. User makes changes with the desktop environment.
.br
3. Capture configuration database contents afterwards.
.br
4. Report changes to the configuration database.
.RE
.sp
Command \fBkz desktop\fR can only be run in a desktop environment.

.SH OPTIONS
Mandatory arguments to long options are mandatory for short options too.
.TP
\fB-a\fR, \fB--addaft\fR \fI<favorite>\fR
Add application icon (favorite) \fI<favorite>\fR to the back of the favorites
bar (dash, dock).
.TP
\fB-b\fR, \fB--addbef\fR \fI<favorite>\fR
Add application icon (favorite) \fI<favorite>\fR in front of the favorites bar
(dash, dock).
.TP
\fB-d\fR, \fB--delete\fR \fI<favorite>\fR
Remove application icon (favorite) \fI<favorite>\fR from the favorites bar
(dash, dock).
.TP
\fB-l\fR, \fB--list\fR
Display the current favorites and app folders.
.TP
\fB-r\fR, \fB--reset\fR
Reset the favorites bar (dash, dock) with default favourites.
.TP
\fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR
Show a short description of the available options.
.TP
\fB-m\fR, \fB--manual\fR
Show the manual page.
.TP
\fB-u\fR, \fB--usage\fR
Show the available options.
.TP
\fB-v\fR, \fB--version\fR
Show the version, author, and copyright.

.SH EXIT STATUS
Normally exit value 0 is returned; if an error occurs, the exit value is not
equal to 0.

.SH FILES
/tmp/kz-desktop--XXXXXXXXXX-a.config
.RS
Saved config before changes, e.g. kz-desktop-YzC75crpak-a.config.
.RE
.sp
/tmp/kz-desktop--XXXXXXXXXX-b.config
.RS
Saved config after changes, e.g. kz-desktop-ZM0EIWWdQc-b.config.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.EX
.sp
\fBkz desktop\fR
.RS
Shows changes to the configuration database after changes to the desktop
environment.
.RE
.sp
\fBkz desktop --addbef idle\fR
.RS
Add the IDLE (Python's Integrated Development and Learning Environment)
application icon (favorite) to the front of the favorites bar. The idle.desktop
file must exist in one of the application directories such as
/usr/share/applications or /var/lib/snapd/desktop/applications.
.RE
.sp
\fBkz desktop --delete idle\fR
.RS
Remove the IDLE (Python's Integrated Development and Learning Environment)
application icon (favorite) from the favorites bar.
.RE
.EE

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBgsettings\fR(1),
\fBkz\fR(1),
\fBkz_common.sh\fR(1),
\fBxfconf-query\fR(1)

.SH KZ
Part of the \fBkz\fR(1) package.
