.\"############################################################################
.\"# Man page for kz-gset.
.\"#
.\"# SPDX-FileCopyrightText: Karel Zimmer <info@karelzimmer.nl>
.\"# SPDX-License-Identifier: CC0-1.0
.\"############################################################################
.\"
.TH "KZ-GSET" "1" "Kz Manual" "kz 4.2.1" "Kz Manual"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
kz-gset \- Change GUI.
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kz gset
[OPTION...]
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBkz gset\fR helps to change the graphical user environment (GUI).
.sp
\fBkz gset\fR:
.RS
- shows changes in the configuration database,
.br
- can add an application icon (favorite), and
.br
- can add an app folder to collect starters.
.RE
.sp
Option \fB-a\fR, \fB--addfavaft\fR \fIFAVORITE\fR adds application icon
(favorite) \fIFAVORITE\fR to the end of favorites bar (dash, dock).
.sp
Option \fB-b\fR, \fB--addfavbef\fR \fIFAVORITE\fR adds application icon
(favorite) \fIFAVORITE\fR to the beginning of favorites bar (dash, dock).
.sp
Option \fB-d\fR, \fB--delfav\fR \fIFAVORITE\fR removes application icon
(favorite) \fIFAVORITE\fR from favorites bar (dash, dock).
.sp
If an application icon (favorite) of \fIFAVORITE\fR already exists, it will not
be added again.
.br
If an application icon (favorite) has been added at the top to be placed at the
bottom, the existing one must first be removed with option \fB-d\fR,
\fB--delfav\fR.
.br
File \fIFAVORITE\fR.desktop must exist in one of the application directories
such as /usr/share/applications or /var/lib/snapd/desktop/applications.
.sp
With option \fB-l\fR, \fB--list\fR the current favorites and app folders are
displayed.
.sp
With option \fB-r\fR, \fB--resetfavs\fR the favorites bar (dash, dock) is reset
with default favourites.
.sp
With option \fB-f\fR, \fB--addappfolder\fR \fIAPPFOLDER\fR appfolder
\fIAPPFOLDER\fR is added.
.sp
Option \fB-x\fR, \fB--delfavappfolder\fR \fIAPPFOLDER\fR removes appfolder
\fIAPPFOLDER\fR.
.sp
If no options are specified, \fBkz gset\fR shows changes in the configuration
database after a change in the graphical user environment (GUI).
.br
The following is performed:
.sp
.RS
1. Capture configuration database content before changing the GUI.
.br
2. User makes changes with the GUI.
.br
3. Capture configuration database contents afterwards.
.br
4. Report changes to the configuration database.
.RE
.sp
With the \fBgsettings set \fIschema\fR\fB[:\fIpath\fR\fB] \fIkey\fR command,
the changes can then be saved in the configuration database, and they no longer
have to be entered manually with the GUI.
.sp
For a system with Lubuntu with the LXDE and with Xubuntu with the Xfce working
environment the commands to see what needs to be changed can be found through
the Terminal with :
.RS
\fBxfconf-query --list\fR
    Provides overview channels.
.sp
\fBxfconf-query --channel \fIkanaal\fR\fB --monitor --verbose\fR
    Now make the changes through the GUI.
.sp
\fBxfconf-query --channel \fIkanaal\fR\fB --list --verbose\fR
    Provides overview properties.
.sp
\fBxfconf-query --channel \fIkanaal\fR\fB --property \fIeigenschap\fR\fB
--set \fIwaarde\fR
    Enter the value for a property.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
Mandatory arguments to long options are mandatory for short options too.
.TP
\fB-a\fR, \fB--addfavaft\fR \fIFAVORITE\fR
Add application icon (favorite) \fIFAVORITE\fR to the back of the favorites bar
(dash, dock).
.TP
\fB-b\fR, \fB--addfavbef\fR \fIFAVORITE\fR
Add application icon (favorite) \fIFAVORITE\fR in front of the favorites bar
(dash, dock).
.TP
\fB-d\fR, \fB--delfav\fR \fIFAVORITE\fR
Remove application icon (favorite) \fIFAVORITE\fR from the favorites bar (dash,
dock).
.TP
\fB-f\fR, \fB--addappfolder\fR \fIAPPFOLDER\fR
Add app folder \fIAPPFOLDER\fR.
.TP
\fB-x\fR, \fB--deleappfolder\fR \fIAPPFOLDER\fR
Delete app folder \fIAPPFOLDER\fR.
.TP
\fB-u\fR, \fB--usage\fR
Show the available options.
.TP
\fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR
Show a short description of the available options.
.TP
\fB-v\fR, \fB--version\fR
Display the version, author, and copyright.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXIT STATUS
Normally exit value 0 is returned; if an error occurs, the exit value is not
equal to 0.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.sp
\fBkz gset\fR
.RS
Shows changes to the configuration database after changes to the graphical
user environment (GUI).
.RE
.sp
\fBkz gset --addfavbef idle\fR
.RS
Add the IDLE (Python's Integrated Development and Learning Environment)
application icon (favorite) to the front of the favorites bar. The idle.desktop
file must exist in one of the application directories such as
/usr/share/applications or /var/lib/snapd/desktop/applications.
.RE
.sp
\fBkz gset --delfav idle\fR
.RS
Remove the IDLE (Python's Integrated Development and Learning Environment)
application icon (favorite) from the favorites bar.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Karel Zimmer <info@karelzimmer.nl>, CC0-1.0
<https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0>.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBkz\fR(1),
\fBgsettings\fR(1),
\fBkz_common.sh\fR(1),
\fBxfconf-query\fR(1),
\fBhttps://karelzimmer.nl\fR
.\"
.\"
.SH KZ
Part of the \fBkz\fR(1) package, named after its creator, Karel Zimmer.
.\"
.\"
.SH AVAILABILITY
Command \fBkz gset\fR is part of the \fBkz\fR package and is available on
Karel Zimmer's website <https://karelzimmer.nl/en>, under Linux.
