.\"############################################################################
.\"# Man page for kz-getdeb.
.\"#
.\"# SPDX-FileCopyrightText: Karel Zimmer <info@karelzimmer.nl>
.\"# SPDX-License-Identifier: CC0-1.0
.\"############################################################################
.\"
.TH "KZ-GETDEB" "1" "Kz Manual" "kz 4.2.1" "Kz Manual"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
kz-getdeb \- Install package kz.
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kz getdeb
[OPTION...]
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBkz getdeb\fR downloads and installs package kz.
.sp
Package kz contains scripts to install Debian and Debian-based systems such as
Ubuntu smoothly and usably.
.sp
For the latest version of \fBkz getdeb\fR and kz package, launch a Terminal and
run (copy of kz will be saved and later deleted):
.br
    \fBwget karelzimmer.nl/getdeb\fR
.br
    \fBbash getdeb\fR
.br
 or (same as before, now on 1 line):
.br
    \fBwget karelzimmer.nl/getdeb; bash getdeb\fR
.br
 or (no copy of getdeb is saved):
.br
    \fBwget -O- karelzimmer.nl/getdeb | bash\fR
.br
 or (if curl is installed, no copy):
.br
    \fBcurl -L karelzimmer.nl/getdeb | bash\fR
.br
 or (if package kz is already installed):
.br
    \fBkz getdeb\fR
.sp
If necessary, for example Debian < 12, the downloaded package will be
repackaged as a package using xz, and then the repackaged package will be
installed.
.sp
With command \fBkz getdev\fR the development environment can be placed on the
local computer so that the package and the website can be developed and tested.
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-u\fR, \fB--usage\fR
Show the available options.
.TP
\fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR
Show a short description of the available options.
.TP
\fB-m\fR, \fB--manual\fR
Show the manual page.
.TP
\fB-v\fR, \fB--version\fR
Display the version, author, and copyright.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXIT STATUS
Normally exit value 0 is returned; if an error occurs, the exit value is not
equal to 0.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTES
.IP " 1." 4
IaC en Day 1 Operations
.RS 4
\fBkz getdeb\fR is mainly used for \fBIaC\fR and \fBDay 1 Operations\fR. See
\fBkz\fR(1) for an explanation.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
Download a website? Then run:
.br
\fBmkdir --parents ~/uploads/karelzimmer.nl/httpdocs
.br
lftp --user <USER> --password <PASSWORD> <HOST> -e\
 'set ssl:verify-certificate no; mirror --delete --verbose /httpdocs
~/uploads/karelzimmer.nl/httpdocs; exit'\fR
.sp
Upload a website? Then run:
.br
\fBlftp --user <USER> --password <PASSWORD> <HOST> -e\
 'set ssl:verify-certificate no; mirror --reverse --delete --verbose /httpdocs
~/uploads/karelzimmer.nl/httpdocs; exit'\fR
.sp
Download a single file? Then run:
.br
\fBlftp --user <USER> --password <PASSWORD> <HOST> -e\
 'set ssl:verify-certificate no; get -O /httpdocs/<DIR>
~/uploads/karelzimmer.nl/httpdocs/<DIR>/<FILE>; exit'\fR
.sp
Upload a single file? Then run:
.br
\fBlftp --user <USER> --password <PASSWORD> <HOST> -e\
 'set ssl:verify-certificate no; put -O /httpdocs/<DIR>
~/uploads/karelzimmer.nl/httpdocs/<DIR>/<FILE>; exit'\fR
.\"
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Karel Zimmer <info@karelzimmer.nl>, CC0-1.0
<https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0>.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBkz\fR(1),
\fBkz_common.sh\fR(1),
\fBkz-getdev\fR(1),
\fBhttps://karelzimmer.nl\fR
.\"
.\"
.SH KZ
Part of the \fBkz\fR(1) package, named after its creator, Karel Zimmer.
.\"
.\"
.SH AVAILABILITY
Command \fBkz getdeb\fR is part of the \fBkz\fR package and is available on
Karel Zimmer's website <https://karelzimmer.nl/en>, under Linux.
