.\"############################################################################
.\"# SPDX-FileComment: Man page for kz-get
.\"#
.\"# SPDX-FileCopyrightText: Karel Zimmer <info@karelzimmer.nl>
.\"# SPDX-License-Identifier: CC0-1.0
.\"############################################################################
.\"
.TH "KZ-GET" "1" "4.2.1" "kz" "User commands (Programs)"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
kz-get \- Download and install Debian or RPM package kz
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kz get
[<options>]
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBkz get\fR downloads and installs Debian or RPM package kz.
.sp
Debian package kz contains scripts to install Debian and Debian-based systems
such as Ubuntu smoothly and usably.
.br
RPM package kz contains scripts to install Red Hat-based systems such as
AlmaLinux and Rocky Linux smoothly and usably.
.sp
For the latest version of \fBkz get\fR and package kz, launch a Terminal and
run (copy of getkz will be saved and later deleted):
.br
    \fBwget karelzimmer.nl/getkz\fR
.br
    \fBbash getkz\fR
.br
 or (same as before, now on 1 line):
.br
    \fBwget karelzimmer.nl/getkz; bash getkz\fR
.br
 or (no copy of getkz is saved):
.br
    \fBwget -O- karelzimmer.nl/getkz | bash\fR
.br
 or (if curl is installed, no copy):
.br
    \fBcurl -L karelzimmer.nl/getkz | bash\fR
.br
 or (if package kz is already installed):
.br
    \fBkz get\fR
.sp
If the install fails for some reason, on a Debian-based system you can try the
following:
    sudo dpkg --configure --pending
    sudo apt-get update --fix-missing
    sudo apt-get install --fix-broken
.br
On a Red Hat-based system try the following:
    sudo dnf clean all
    sudo dnf makecache
.sp
With command \fBkz dev\fR the development environment can be placed on the
local computer so that the package and the website can be developed and tested.
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR
Show a short description of the available options.
.TP
\fB-m\fR, \fB--manual\fR
Show the manual page.
.TP
\fB-u\fR, \fB--usage\fR
Show the available options.
.TP
\fB-v\fR, \fB--version\fR
Show the version, author, and copyright.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXIT STATUS
Normally exit value 0 is returned; if an error occurs, the exit value is not
equal to 0.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
/tmp/kz-get-common-XXXXXXXXXX.sh
.RS
Downloaded common module, bijvoorbeeld kz-get-common-MXstBzIEmh.sh.
.RE
.sp
/tmp/kz-get-XXXXXXXXXX.deb
.RS
Downloaded debian file, e.g. kz-build-AEOzIjJyie.deb.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTES
.IP " 1." 4
IaC en Day 1 Operations
.RS 4
\fBkz get\fR is mainly used for \fBIaC\fR and \fBDay 1 Operations\fR. See
\fBkz\fR(1) for an explanation.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH AUTHORS
Written by Karel Zimmer <info@karelzimmer.nl>.
.br
License CC0 1.0 <https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0>.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBkz\fR(1),
\fBkz_common.sh\fR(1),
\fBkz-dev\fR(1),
\fBhttps://karelzimmer.nl/en\fR
.\"
.\"
.SH KZ
Part of the \fBkz\fR(1) package, named after its creator, Karel Zimmer.
.\"
.\"
.SH AVAILABILITY
Command \fBkz get\fR is part of the \fBkz\fR package and is available on
Karel Zimmer's website <https://karelzimmer.nl/en>, under Linux.
