.\"############################################################################
.\"# SPDX-FileComment: Man page for kz-install.sh
.\"#
.\"# SPDX-FileCopyrightText: Karel Zimmer <info@karelzimmer.nl>
.\"# SPDX-License-Identifier: CC0-1.0
.\"############################################################################
.\"
.TH "KZ-INSTALL.SH" "1" "4.2.1" "kz" "User commands"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
kz-install.sh \- Install file for use with kz install
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kz-install
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
This file contains commands to process as an install file with kz install.
.sp
The install file contains so-called \fBApp records\fR and \fBCommand
records\fR.
.sp
See \fBTable 1\fR which \fBtypes\fR of records there are and how these records
are processed.
.sp
See \fBTable 2\fR for an \fBexample\fR of these records and how these records
are processed.
More examples can be seen through the \fBkz install --cat\fR command.
.sp
.sp
.B Table 1. Record types and their processing
.TS
allbox tab(:);
lb | lb.
T{
Record
T}:T{
Description
T}
.T&
l | l
l | l.
T{
# Install \fI<app>\fR on <host>...
T}:T{
Install the \fI<app>\fR on <host>s (\fBApp record\fR)
T}
T{
# Comment...
T}:T{
Comment line (none, one or more)
T}
T{
Command
T}:T{
Install command (one or more \fBCommand records\fR)
T}
T{
T}:T{
Empty line (none, one or more)
T}
T{
# Remove \fI<app>\fR from <host>...
T}:T{
Remove the \fI<app>\fR from <host>s (\fBApp record\fR for option remove)
T}
T{
Command
T}:T{
Remove command (one or more \fBCommand records\fR)
T}
.TE
.sp
.sp
.B Table 2. Example of records and their processing
.TS
box tab(:);
lb | lb.
T{
Record
T}:T{
Description
T}
.T&
- | -
l | l
l | l.
T{
# Install gnome-gmail on *
T}:T{
Install gnome-gmail on any computer, see [1].
T}
T{
sudo apt-get install --assume-yes gnome-gmail
T}:T{
T}
T{
T}:T{
T}
T{
# Remove gnome-gmail from *
T}:T{
Remove gnome-gmail from any computer, see [1].
T}
T{
sudo apt-get remove --purge --assume-yes gnome-gmail
T}:T{
T}
T{
T}:T{
T}
T{
# Install ufw on pc02
T}:T{
Install ufw only on pc02, see [2].
T}
T{
sudo apt-get install --assume-yes gufw
T}:T{
T}
T{
T}:T{
T}
T{
# Install kvm on pc01 pc02
T}:T{
Install kvm on pc01 and pc02, see [3].
T}
T{
sudo apt-get install --assume-yes qemu-kvm
T}:T{
T}
T{
T}:T{
T}
T{
# Install google-earth on -none-
T}:T{
Do not install Google Earth by default, see [4].
T}
T{
sudo apt-get install --assume-yes google-earth
T}:T{
T}
.TE
.sp
.sp
[1]
.br
The line with '*' causes the associated commands to run on all computers.
.sp
[2]
.br
The line with 'pc02' ensures that the associated commands are executed only on
pc02 by default.
.br
The app can still be installed on another computer with the command 'kz instal\
l google-earth'.
.sp
[3]
.br
The line with 'pc01 pc02' ensures that the associated commands are executed
only on pc01 and pc02 by default.
.br
The app can still be installed on another computer with the command 'kz instal\
l kvm'.
.sp
[4]
.br
The line with '-none-' ensures that the associated commands are not executed on
a computer by default (NOTE: '-none-' is not a valid computer name and will
therefore never be selected by default).
.br
The app can still be installed with the command 'kz install google-earth'.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBkz-install\fR(1),
\fBhttps://karelzimmer.nl/en\fR
