.\"############################################################################
.\"# Man page for kz-ivp.
.\"#
.\"# Written in 2019 by Karel Zimmer <info@karelzimmer.nl>, Creative Commons
.\"# Public Domain Dedication
.\"# <https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0>.
.\"############################################################################
.\"
.TH KZ-IVP 1 "Kz Manual" "kz 365" "Kz Manual"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
kz-ivp \- Checking scripts.
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSISmsg
.B kz ivp
[OPTION...]
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBkz ivp\fR performs an Installation Verification Procedure (IVP).
.sp
Performs an IVP that checks scripts content and with shellcheck and
pycodestyle.
.sp
Among other things, the following are checked:
.br
tags        - TODO/FIXME/BUG-tags
.br
lines       - number of lines and line length
.br
fields      - such as release year
.br
spaces      - trailing spaces
.br
shellcheck  - shell script analyse tool
.br
pycodestyle - Python script analyse tool
.sp
Command \fBkz ivp\fR can only be run as Developer, i.e. logged in as karel on
pcNN (e.g. pc01).
.sp
Command \fBkz ivp\fR is also called from \fBkz deploy\fR.
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-u\fR, \fB--usage\fR
Show the available options.
.TP
\fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR
Show a short description of the available options.
.TP
\fB-v\fR, \fB--version\fR
Display the version, author, and copyright.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXIT STATUS
Normally exit value 0 is returned; if an error occurs, the exit value not equal
to 0.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTES
.IP " 1." 4
Day 1 Operations and CI/CD
.RS 4
\fBkz ivp\fR is mainly used for \fBDay 1 Operations\fR and \fBCI/CD\fR. See
\fBkz\fR(1) for an explanation..RE
.\"
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
Written in 2015 by Karel Zimmer <info@karelzimmer.nl>, Creative Commons
Public Domain Dedication <https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0>.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBkz\fR(1),
\fBkz_common.sh\fR(1),
\fBkz-deploy\fR(1),
\fBhttps://karelzimmer.nl\fR
.\"
.\"
.SH KZ
Part of the \fBkz\fR(1) package, named after its creator Karel Zimmer.
.\"
.\"
.SH AVAILABILITY
Command \fBkz ivp\fR is part of the \fBkz\fR package and is available on
Karel Zimmer's website
.br
<https://karelzimmer.nl/html/en/linux.html#scripts>.
