.\"############################################################################
.\"# Man page for kz-install.
.\"#
.\"# Written Karel Zimmer <info@karelzimmer.nl>, CC0 1.0 Universal
.\"# <https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0>, 2023.
.\"############################################################################
.\"
.TH "KZ-INSTALL" "1" "2009-2023" "kz 365" "Kz Manual"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
kz-install \- Install apps.
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kz install
[OPTION...] [\fIAPP\fR...] [\fIFILE\fR...]
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBkz install\fR installs apps and changes system settings.
.sp
In a graphical work environment command \fBkz install\fR can be executed by
searching for \fBapps\fR, click on \fBApps install\fR.
.sp
Use \fBkz setup\fR (after \fBkz install\fR) to set up apps and change user
settings.
.sp
\fBkz install\fR processes an input file ("installation file") that contains
commands for installing apps and modifying system settings.
.sp
By default, \fBkz install\fR processes the input file
/usr/bin/kz-install-install-<distribution>-desktop.sh,
.br
<distribution> is populated with the value from the current computer.
.sp
For example, kz-install-install-ubuntu-desktop.sh.
.br
This input file contains commands for all computers included in it for Ubuntu
desktop.
.sp
With option \fB-f\fR, \fB--file\fR \fIFILE\fR another input file can be
specified, the file name must start with \fBkz-install-\fR.
.sp
When processing this input file, the commands for the current computer are
selected and copied to a temporary file.
.sp
With option \fB-r\fR, \fB--remove\fR the installation can be undone.
.br
Then, for example, file /usr/bin/kz-install-remove-ubuntu-desktop.sh is
processed.
.sp
With option \fB--server\fR server is used instead of desktop.
.br
Then, for example, file /usr/bin/kz-install-install-ubuntu-server.sh is
processed.
.sp
For the format of the input files see the section \fBFILE FORMAT\fR below.
.sp
If no \fIAPP\fRs are specified, the temporary file will be processed.
.sp
Option \fB-a\fR, \fB--apps\fR lists apps available in all standard input files.
.sp
It is possible to specify \fIAPP\fRs.
.br
Per specified \fIAPP\fR, the first available app is found in all standard input
files without a selection by computer name (HOST) and is copied to a temporary
file along with the associated commands.
.sp
Option \fB-c\fR, \fB--cat\fR lists the contents of the temporary file.
.sp
Option \fB-s\fR, \fB--simulate\fR shows the commands in the temporary file that
would be executed.
.sp
A -- signals the end of options and disables further option processing.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILE FORMAT
The default input files to be processed should start with
\fBkz-install-install-\fR or \fBkz-install-remove-\fR, and end with \fB.sh\fR.
.sp
The records are processed in the order they appear in the files.
.br
The commands supplied by default with \fBkz install\fR are arranged in such a
way that the result remains the same when executed repeatedly.
.sp
See \fBTable 1\fR which \fBtypes\fR of records there are and how these records
are processed.
.sp
See \fBTable 2\fR for an \fBexample\fR of these records in sample file
kz-install-install-ubuntu-desktop.sh for computer pc02.
More examples can be seen through the \fBkz install --cat\fR command.
.sp
.sp
.br
.B Table 1. Record types and their processing
.TS
allbox tab(:);
lb | lb.
T{
Record type
T}:T{
Description
T}
.T&
l | l
l | l
l | l
l | l
l | l
l | l.
T{
# APP <name>
T}:T{
Contains the APP <name>.
T}
T{
#-APP <name>
T}:T{
Ditto, not always used, see [1].
T}
T{
# HOST <host>
T}:T{
Name of the computer (<host>) where the command applies
T}
T{
.sp
T}:T{
Will be skipped (is empty).
T}
T{
#...
T}:T{
Will be skipped (is a comment).
T}
T{
Command
T}:T{
Command to install APP <app>
T}
.TE
.sp
.sp
.br
[1]
.br
Line '#-APP' is for a command specific to a distribution or a computer.
.br
This line is not shown with option \fB-a\fR, \fB--apps\fR, and is not used to
look up commands at a given \fIAPP\fR.
.br
This line is used when processing the temporary file.
.sp
.sp
.br
.B Table 2. Lines in sample file kz-install-install-ubuntu.sh
.TS
box tab(:);
lb | lb.
T{
Record type
T}:T{
Description
T}
.T&
- | -
l | l
l | l
l | l
l | l
l | l
l | l
l | l
l | l
l | l.
T{
# APP gnome-gmail
T}:T{
Name of the APP.
T}
T{
# HOST pc02
T}:T{
Command for pc02, see [2].
T}
T{
# Gmail as the preferred email application in GNOME
T}:T{
Description of the APP.
T}
T{
sudo apt-get install --yes gnome-gmail
T}:T{
Install command.
T}
T{
.sp
T}:T{
Empty line.
T}
T{
#-APP gast
T}:T{
Verborgen APP gast.
T}
T{
# HOST pc02
T}:T{
Only install on pc02.
T}
T{
# Add user gast
T}:T{
Description of the APP.
T}
T{
sudo useradd --create-home ... gast
T}:T{
Install command.
T}
.TE
.sp
.sp
.br
[2]
.br
The line '# HOST pc02' ensures that the associated commands are executed only
on computer pc02.
.br
A line '# HOST *' causes the associated commands to run on all computers.
.br
The line '# HOST ' is ignored (no selection on computer name) when searching
for commands for a specified \fIAPP\fR.
.\"
.\"
.sp
.SH OPTIONS
Mandatory arguments to long options are mandatory for short options too.
.TP
\fB-a\fR, \fB--apps\fR
Show a list of apps to install.
.TP
\fB-c\fR, \fB--cat\fR
Display the contents of the temporary file.
.TP
\fB-r\fR, \fB--remove\fR
Remove apps.
.TP
\fB--server\fR
Install apps and change system settings for a server.
.TP
\fB-s\fR, \fB--simulate\fR
No action, but simulate the installation, and show the commands that would be
executed.
.TP
\fB-u\fR, \fB--usage\fR
Show the available options.
.TP
\fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR
Show a short description of the available options.
.TP
\fB-v\fR, \fB--version\fR
Display the version, author, and copyright.
.TP
\fB-g\fR, \fB--gui\fR
Start in graphics mode (gui=graphical user interface).
.TP
\fB--\fR
Signals the end of options and disables further option processing.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXIT STATUS
Normally exit value 0 is returned; if an error occurs, the exit value not equal
to 0.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
/usr/bin/kz-install-install-debian-desktop.sh
.RS
Standard installation file for Debian desktop.
.RE
.sp
/usr/bin/kz-install-install-ubuntu-desktop.sh
.RS
Standard installation file for Ubuntu desktop.
.RE
.sp
/usr/bin/kz-install-remove-debian-desktop.sh
.RS
Standard remove file for Debian desktop.
.RE
.sp
/usr/bin/kz-install-remove-ubuntu-desktop.sh
.RS
Standard remove file for Ubuntu desktop.
.RE
.sp
/tmp/kz-install-install-cmds-XXXXXXXXXX
/tmp/kz-install-remove-cmds-XXXXXXXXXX
.RS
Temporary file containing all commands to run.
.RE
.sp
/tmp/kz-install-install-sims-XXXXXXXXXX /tmp/kz-install-remove-sims-XXXXXXXXXX
.RS
Temporary simulation file.
.RE
.sp
~/Setup/Apps
.RS
List of installed apps. For control. Created by kz-backup.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTES
.IP " 1." 4
Checklist install
.RS 4
https://karelzimmer.nl/html/en/linux.html#documents
.RE
.IP " 2." 4
Home / Setup / Apps
.RS 4
The Apps file contains names of previously installed packages.
.br
Can be used to check the installation for completeness.
.RE
.IP " 3." 4
IaC and Day 1 Operations
.RS 4
\fBkz install\fR is mainly used for \fBIaC\fR and \fBDay 1 Operations\fR. See
\fBkz\fR(1) for an explanation.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.sp
\fBkz install\fR
.RS
Install everything in the default installation files.
.br
Starter \fBApps\fR is also available for this in a graphical work environment.
.RE
.sp
\fBkz install google-chrome\fR
.RS
Install Google Chrome.
.RE
.sp
\fBkz install --remove google-chrome\fR
.RS
Remove Google Chrome.
.RE
.sp
\fBkz install --cat google-chrome\fR
.RS
Show installation commands for Google Chrome.
.RE
.sp
\fBkz install --cat --remove google-chrome\fR
.RS
Show remove commands for Google Chrome.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Karel Zimmer <info@karelzimmer.nl>, CC0 1.0 Universal
<https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0>, 2009-2023.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBkz\fR(1),
\fBkz_common.sh\fR(1),
\fBkz-menu\fR(1),
\fBkz-setup\fR(1),
\fBkz-update\fR(1),
\fBhttps://karelzimmer.nl\fR
.\"
.\"
.SH KZ
Part of the \fBkz\fR(1) package, named after its creator Karel Zimmer.
.\"
.\"
.SH AVAILABILITY
Command \fBkz install\fR is part of the \fBkz\fR package and is available on
Karel Zimmer's website
.br
<https://karelzimmer.nl/html/en/linux.html#scripts>.
