.\"# ##########################################################################
.\"# SPDX-FileComment: Man page for kz-menu.
.\"#
.\"# SPDX-FileCopyrightText: Karel Zimmer <info@karelzimmer.nl>
.\"# SPDX-License-Identifier: CC0-1.0
.\"# ##########################################################################

.TH "KZ-MENU" "1" "4.2.1" "kz" "User commands"
.ad l

.SH NAME
kz-menu - installation menu

.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY kz\ menu
[OPTIONS]
.YS

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBkz menu\fR runs kz commands through a menu.
.sp
In a desktop environment command \fBkz menu\fR can be executed by
searching for \fBmenu\fR, click on \fBKZ Installation menu\fR pictogram.
.sp
Show a menu that runs a number of commands in succession so that, for example,
Debian Linux can be installed and used immediately.
.sp
The choices in the Installation menu follow the chapters in the Checklist
installation.
.sp
By default, \fBkz menu\fR runs in text-based mode (TUI).
.sp
With option \fB-C\fR, \fB--cli\fR, \fBkz menu\fR runs in command-line mode
(CLI).
.sp
With option \fB-G\fR, \fB--gui\fR, \fBkz menu\fR runs in graphical mode (GUI).
A desktop environment is required.
.sp
Option \fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR shows a short description of the available
options and exits.
.sp
Option \fB-m\fR, \fB--manual\fR shows the manual page and exits.
.sp
With option \fB-T\fR, \fB--tui\fR, \fBkz menu\fR runs in text-based mode (TUI),
this is the default mode.
.sp
Option \fB-u\fR, \fB--usage\fR shows a short usage summary and exits.
.sp
Option \fB-v\fR, \fB--version\fR shows the program version, author, and
copyright, and exits.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-C\fR, \fB--cli\fR
Run in command-line mode (CLI).
.TP
\fB-G\fR, \fB--gui\fR
Run in graphical mode (GUI). A desktop environment is required.
.TP
\fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR
Show a short description of the available options.
.TP
\fB-m\fR, \fB--manual\fR
Show the manual page.
.TP
\fB-T\fR, \fB--tui\fR
Run in text-based mode (TUI), this is the default mode.
.TP
\fB-u\fR, \fB--usage\fR
Show the available options.
.TP
\fB-v\fR, \fB--version\fR
Show the version, author, and copyright.

.SH EXIT STATUS
Normally exit value 0 is returned; if an error occurs, the exit value is not
equal to 0.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBkz\fR(1),
\fBkz-backup\fR(1),
\fBkz_common.sh\fR(1),
\fBkz-install\fR(1),
\fBkz-restore\fR(1),
\fBkz-setup\fR(1),
\fBkz-wifi\fR(1)

.SH KZ
Part of the \fBkz\fR(1) package.

.SH NOTES
.IP " 1." 4
Checklist install
.RS 4
.UR https://karelzimmer.nl/en
.UE
.RE
.IP " 2." 4
Day 1 Operations
.RS 4
\fBkz menu\fR is mainly used for \fBDay 1 Operations\fR. See \fBkz\fR(1) for an
explanation.
.RE
