.\"############################################################################
.\"# SPDX-FileComment: Man page for kz-rpm
.\"#
.\"# SPDX-FileCopyrightText: Karel Zimmer <info@karelzimmer.nl>
.\"# SPDX-License-Identifier: CC0-1.0
.\"############################################################################
.\"
.TH "KZ-RPM" "1" "4.2.1" "KZ" "Kz Manual"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
kz-rpm \- Download and install RPM package kz
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kz rpm
[OPTION...]
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBkz rpm\fR downloads and installs package kz.
.sp
Package kz contains scripts to install Red Hat and Red Hat-based systems such
as Rocky Linux smoothly and usably.
.sp
For the latest version of \fBkz rpm\fR and kz package, launch a Terminal and
run (copy of kz will be saved and later deleted):
.br
    \fBwdeb karelzimmer.nl/rpm\fR
.br
    \fBbash rpm\fR
.br
 or (same as before, now on 1 line):
.br
    \fBwdeb karelzimmer.nl/rpm; bash rpm\fR
.br
 or (no copy of rpm is saved):
.br
    \fBwdeb -O- karelzimmer.nl/rpm | bash\fR
.br
 or (if curl is installed, no copy):
.br
    \fBcurl -L karelzimmer.nl/rpm | bash\fR
.br
 or (if package kz is already installed):
.br
    \fBkz rpm\fR
.sp
With command \fBkz dev\fR the development environment can be placed on the
local computer so that the package and the website can be developed and tested.
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR
Show a short description of the available options.
.TP
\fB-m\fR, \fB--manual\fR
Show the manual page.
.TP
\fB-u\fR, \fB--usage\fR
Show the available options.
.TP
\fB-v\fR, \fB--version\fR
Show the version, author, and copyright.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXIT STATUS
Normally exit value 0 is returned; if an error occurs, the exit value is not
equal to 0.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTES
.IP " 1." 4
IaC en Day 1 Operations
.RS 4
\fBkz rpm\fR is mainly used for \fBIaC\fR and \fBDay 1 Operations\fR. See
\fBkz\fR(1) for an explanation.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Karel Zimmer <info@karelzimmer.nl>.
.br
License CC0 1.0 <https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0>.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBkz\fR(1),
\fBkz_common.sh\fR(1),
\fBkz-dev\fR(1),
\fBhttps://karelzimmer.nl/en\fR
.\"
.\"
.SH KZ
Part of the \fBkz\fR(1) package, named after its creator, Karel Zimmer.
.\"
.\"
.SH AVAILABILITY
Command \fBkz rpm\fR is part of the \fBkz\fR package and is available on
Karel Zimmer's website <https://karelzimmer.nl/en>, under Linux.
