.\"############################################################################
.\"# SPDX-FileComment: Man page for kz-setup.sh
.\"#
.\"# SPDX-FileCopyrightText: Karel Zimmer <info@karelzimmer.nl>
.\"# SPDX-License-Identifier: CC0-1.0
.\"############################################################################

.TH "KZ-SETUP.SH" "1" "4.2.1" "kz" "User commands"

.SH NAME
kz-setup.sh - Setup file for use with kz install

.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY kz-setup.sh
.YS

.SH DESCRIPTION
This file contains commands to process as an setup file with kz setup.
.sp
The setup file contains so-called \fBApp records\fR and \fBCommand records\fR.
.sp
See \fBTable 1\fR for which \fBtypes\fR records there are and how these records
are processed.
.sp
See \fBTable 2\fR for an \fBexample\fR of these records in file
kz-setup.sh.
More examples can be seen through the \fBkz setup --cat\fR command.
.LP
.B Table 1. Record types and their processing
.TS
allbox tab(:);
lb | lb.
T{
Record
T}:T{
Description
T}
.T&
l | l
l | l
l | l
l | l.
T{
# Setup \fI<app>\fR on <host>...
T}:T{
Set up \fI<app>\fR on <host>s (\fBApp record\fR)
T}
T{
# Comment...
T}:T{
Comment line (none, one or more)
T}
T{
Command
T}:T{
Setup command (one or more \fBCommand records\fR)
T}
T{
T}:T{
Empty line (none, one or more)
T}
T{
# Reset \fI<app>\fR on <host>...
T}:T{
Reset \fI<app>\fR on <host>s (\fBApp record\fR for option reset)
T}
T{
Command
T}:T{
Reset command (one or more \fBCommand records\fR)
T}
.TE
.LP
.B Table 2. Example of records and their processing
.TS
box tab(:);
lb | lb.
T{
Record
T}:T{
Description
T}
.T&
- | -
l | l
l | l
l | l
l | l
l | l
l | l
l | l
l | l
l | l
l | l
l | l
l | l.
T{
# Setup google-chrome for *
T}:T{
Set up google-chrome on any computer, see [1]
T}
T{
kz-desktop --addbef=google-chrome
T}:T{
T}
T{
T}:T{
T}
T{
# Reset google-chrome for *
T}:T{
Reset google-chrome on any computer, see [1]
T}
T{
kz-desktop --delete=google-chrome
T}:T{
T}
T{
T}:T{
T}
T{
# Setup gnome on pc02
T}:T{
Set up gnome only on pc02, see [2]
T}
T{
gsettings set org.gnome.shell...
T}:T{
T}
T{
T}:T{
T}
T{
# setup kvm on pc01 pc02
T}:T{
Set up kvm on pc01 and pc02, see [3]
T}
T{
kz-desktop --addaft=virt-manager
T}:T{
T}
T{
T}:T{
T}
T{
# Setup google-earth for -none-
T}:T{
Do not set up Google Earth by default, see [4]
T}
T{
kz-desktop --addaft=google-earth
T}:T{
T}
.TE
.sp
.sp
[1]
.br
The line with '*' causes the associated commands to run on all computers.
.sp
[2]
.br
The line with 'pc02' ensures that the associated commands are executed only on
pc02 by default.
.br
The app can still be set up on another computer with the command 'kz setup goo\
gle-earth'.
.sp
[3]
.br
The line with 'pc01 pc02' ensures that the associated commands are executed
only on pc01 and pc02 by default.
.br
The app can still be set up on another computer with the command 'kz setup kvm\
'.
.sp
[4]
.br
The line with '-none-' ensures that the associated commands are not executed by
default (NOTE: '-none-' is not a valid computer name and will therefore never
be selected by default).
.br
The app can still be set up with the command 'kz setup google-earth'.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBkz-install\fR(1),
.UR https://karelzimmer.nl/nl/en
.UE
