.\"############################################################################
.\"# Man page for kz-setup.
.\"#
.\"# Written Karel Zimmer <info@karelzimmer.nl>, CC0 1.0 Universal
.\"# <https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0>, 2023.
.\"############################################################################
.\"
.TH "KZ-SETUP" "1" "2013-2023" "kz 365" "Kz Manual"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
kz-setup \- Set up apps.
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kz setup
[OPTION...] [\fIAPP\fR...] [\fIFILE\fR...]
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBkz setup\fR sets up apps and changes user settings.
.sp
In a graphical work environment command \fBkz setup\fR can be executed by
searching for \fBapps\fR, click on \fBSet up apps\fR.
.sp
Use (first) \fBkz install\fR to install apps and changes system settings.
.sp
\fBkz setup\fR processes an input file ("set up file") that contains
commands for setting up apps and changing user settings.
.sp
By default, \fBkz setup\fR processes the input file
/usr/bin/kz-setup-<distribution>-desktop.sh,
.br
<distribution> is populated with the value from the current computer.
.sp
For example, kz-setup-setup-ubuntu-desktop.sh.
.br
This input file contains commands for all users (USERs) included in it for
Ubuntu desktop.
.sp
With option \fB-f\fR, \fB--file\fR \fIFILE\fR another input file can be
specified, the file name must start with \fBkz-setup-\fR.
.sp
When processing this input file, the commands for the current user (USER) are
selected and copied to a temporary file.
.sp
With option \fB-r\fR, \fB--reset\fR the setting can be undone.
.br
Then, for example, file /usr/bin/kz-setup-reset-ubuntu-desktop.sh
("reset file") is processed.
.sp
With option \fB--server\fR server is used instead of desktop.
.br
Then, for example, file /usr/bin/kz-setup-setup-ubuntu-server.sh is processed.
.sp
For the input file format, see the \fBFILE FORMAT\fR section below.
.sp
If no \fIAPP\fRs are specified, the temporary file will be processed.
.sp
Option \fB-a\fR, \fB--apps\fR lists apps available in all standard input files.
.sp
It is possible to specify \fIAPP\fRs.
.br
Per specified \fIAPP\fR, the first available app is found in all standard input
files without a selection by user name (USER) and is copied to a temporary file
along with the associated commands.
.sp
Option \fB-c\fR, \fB--cat\fR gives the contents of the temporary file.
.sp
Option \fB-s\fR, \fB--simulate\fR shows the commands in the temporary file that
would be executed.
.sp
A -- signals the end of options and disables further option processing.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILE FORMAT
The standard input files to be processed should start with
\fBkz-setup-setup-\fR or \fBkz-setup-reset-\fR, and end with \fB.sh\fR.
.sp
The records are processed in the order they appear in the files.
.br
The commands supplied by default with \fBkz setup\fR are arranged in such a way
that the result remains the same when executed repeatedly.
.sp
See \fBTable 1\fR for which \fBtypes\fR records there are and how these records
are processed.
.sp
See \fBTable 2\fR for an \fBexample\fR of these records in
kz-setup-setup-ubuntu-desktop.sh sample file for computer pc02 and user jan.
More examples can be seen through the \fBkz setup --cat\fR command.
.\"
.\"
.sp
.br
.B Table 1. Record types and their processing
.TS
allbox tab(:);
lb | lb.
T{
Record type
T}:T{
Description
T}
.T&
l | l
l | l
l | l
l | l
l | l
l | l.
T{
# APP <name>
T}:T{
Contains the APP <name>.
T}
T{
#-APP <name>
T}:T{
Ditto, not always used, see [1].
T}
T{
# USER <user@host>
T}:T{
Name of the user (<user>) and computer (<host>) where the command applies
T}
T{
.sp
T}:T{
Will be skipped (is empty).
T}
T{
#...
T}:T{
Will be skipped (is a comment).
T}
T{
Command
T}:T{
Command to set up APP <app>
T}
.TE
.sp
.sp
.br
[1]
.br
Line '#-APP' is for a command specific to a distribution or a computer or a
user.
.br
This line is not shown with option \fB-a\fR, \fB--apps\fR, and is not used to
look up commands at a given \fIAPP\fR.
.br
This line is used when processing the temporary file.
.sp
.sp
.br
.B Table 2. Lines in kz-setup-setup-ubuntu-desktop.sh sample file
.TS
box tab(:);
lb | lb.
T{
Regelsoort
T}:T{
Beschrijving
T}
.T&
- | -
l | l
l | l
l | l
l | l
l | l
l | l
l | l
l | l
l | l.
T{
# APP google-chrome
T}:T{
Name of the APP.
T}
T{
# USER *@*
T}:T{
Command is for all users on all computers.
T}
T{
# Google's webbrowser
T}:T{
Description of the APP.
T}
T{
kz-gset --addfavbef=google-chrome
T}:T{
Set up command.
T}
T{
.sp
T}:T{
Empty line.
T}
T{
#-APP gnome
T}:T{
Hidden APP gnome.
T}
T{
# USER jan@pc02
T}:T{
Only set up for Jan on pc02, see [2].
T}
T{
# Desktop environment
T}:T{
Description of the APP.
T}
T{
gsettings set org.gnome.shell...
T}:T{
Set up command.
T}
.TE
sp
.sp
.br
[2]
.br
The line '# USER jan@pc02' ensures that the associated commands are executed
only for user jan on computer pc02.
.br
A line '# USER *@*' causes the associated commands to run for all users on all
computers.
.br
The combinations <user>@* (user <user> on all computers) and *@<host> (all
users on computer <host>) are not supported.
.br
The line '# USER ' is ignored (no selection on user name and computer name)
when searching for commands for a specified \fIAPP\fR.
.\"
.\"
.sp
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-a\fR, \fB--apps\fR
Show a list of apps to set up.
.TP
\fB-c\fR, \fB--cat\fR
Display the contents of the temporary file.
.TP
\fB-r\fR, \fB--reset\fR
Reset apps.
.TP
\fB--server\fR
Set up apps and change user settings for a server.
.TP
\fB-s\fR, \fB--simulate\fR
No action, but simulate the setup, and show the commands that would be
executed.
.TP
\fB-u\fR, \fB--usage\fR
Show the available options.
.TP
\fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR
Show a short description of the available options.
.TP
\fB-v\fR, \fB--version\fR
Display the version, author, and copyright.
.TP
\fB-g\fR, \fB--gui\fR
Start in graphics mode (gui=graphical user interface).
.TP
\fB--\fR
Signals the end of options and disables further option processing.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXIT STATUS
Normally exit value 0 is returned; if an error occurs, the exit value not equal
to 0.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
/usr/bin/kz-setup-setup-debian-desktop.sh
.RS
Standard set up file for Debian desktop.
.RE
.sp
/usr/bin/kz-setup-setup-ubuntu-desktop.sh
.RS
Standard set up file for Ubuntu desktop.
.RE
.sp
/usr/bin/kz-setup-reset-debian-desktop.sh
.RS
Standard reset file for Debian desktop.
.RE
.sp
/usr/bin/kz-setup-reset-ubuntu-desktop.sh
.RS
Standard reset file for removing apps on Ubuntu desktop.
.RE
.sp
/tmp/kz-setup-setup-cmds-XXXXXXXXXX /tmp/kz-setup-reset-cmds-XXXXXXXXXX
.RS
Temporary set up file containing all commands to run.
.RE
.sp
/tmp/kz-setup-setup-sims-XXXXXXXXXX /tmp/kz-setup-reset-sims-XXXXXXXXXX
.RS
Temporary simulation file.
.RE
.sp
~/Setup/Background
.RS
Set desktop wallpaper. For control. Created by kz-backup.
.RE
.sp
~/Setup/Favorites
.RS
Set favorites in the favorites bar (dash/dock). For control. Created by
kz-backup
.RE
.sp
~/Setup/Userphote
.RS
Set user photo. For control. Created by kz-backup.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTES
.IP " 1." 4
Checklist install
.RS 4
https://karelzimmer.nl/html/en/linux.html#documents
.RE
.IP " 2." 4
Personal folder / Settings / Favorites
.RS 4
The Favorites file contains previously set favorites.
.br
Can be used to check the favorites for completeness.
.RE
.IP " 3." 4
IaC and Day 1 Operations
.RS 4
\fBkz setup\fR is mainly used for \fBIaC\fR and \fBDay 1 Operations\fR. See
\fBkz\fR(1) for an explanation.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.sp
\fBkz setup\fR
.RS
Set everything in the default setup files.
.br
Starter \fBSetup apps\fR is also available for this in a graphical work
environment.
.RE
.sp
\fBkz setup google-chrome\fR
.RS
Setup Google Chrome.
.RE
.sp
\fBkz setup --reset google-chrome\fR
.RS
Reset Google Chrome.
.RE
.sp
\fBkz setup --cat google-chrome\fR
.RS
Show setup commands for Google Chrome.
.RE
.sp
\fBkz setup --cat --reset google-chrome\fR
.RS
Show reset commands for Google Chrome.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Karel Zimmer <info@karelzimmer.nl>, CC0 1.0 Universal
<https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0>, 2013-2023.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBkz\fR(1),
\fBkz_common.sh\fR(1),
\fBkz-install\fR(1),
\fBkz-menu\fR(1),
\fBhttps://karelzimmer.nl\fR
.\"
.\"
.SH KZ
Part of the \fBkz\fR(1) package, named after its creator Karel Zimmer.
.\"
.\"
.SH AVAILABILITY
Command \fBkz setup\fR is part of the \fBkz\fR package and is available on
Karel Zimmer's website
.br
<https://karelzimmer.nl/html/en/linux.html#scripts>.
