.\"############################################################################
.\"# Man page for kz-update.
.\"#
.\"# Written in 2021 by Karel Zimmer <info@karelzimmer.nl>, Creative Commons
.\"# Public Domain Dedication
.\"# <https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0>.
.\"############################################################################
.\"
.TH KZ-UPDATE 1 "Kz Manual" "kz 365" "Kz Manual"
.\"
.\"
.SH T9N
This manual page will soon be fully translated from NL to EN, and this line
will be deleted.
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
kz-update \- Systeem bijwerken.
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kz update
[OPTION...]
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBkz update\fR voert een repair en update uit.
.sp
Achtereenvolgens wordt uitgevoerd:
.br
- Als repair:
.br
  - dpkg --configure --pending
.br
  - apt-get update --fix-missing
.br
  - apt-get install --fix-broken
.br
- De eigenlijke update:
.br
  - apt-get update
.br
  - apt-get dist-upgrade --yes
.br
  - snap refresh
.br
- Opschonen:
.br
  - apt-get autoclean --yes
.br
  - apt-get autoremove --yes
.br
  - snap cleanup
.br
- Melding "reboot" geven als bestand /var/run/reboot-required bestaat.
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-u\fR, \fB--usage\fR
Show the available options.
.TP
\fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR
Show a short description of the available options.
.TP
\fB-v\fR, \fB--version\fR
Display the version, author, and copyright.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXIT STATUS
Normally exit value 0 is returned; if an error occurs, the exit value not equal
to 0.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTES
.IP " 1." 4
Day 2 Operations
.RS 4
\fBkz update\fR wordt voornamelijk gebruikt voor \fBDay 2 Operations\fR. Zie
\fBkz\fR(1) voor een uitleg.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
Written in 2021 by Karel Zimmer <info@karelzimmer.nl>, Creative Commons
Public Domain Dedication <https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0>.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBkz\fR(1),
\fBkz_common.py\fR(1),
\fBhttps://karelzimmer.nl\fR
.\"
.\"
.SH KZ
Part of the \fBkz\fR(1) package, named after its creator Karel Zimmer.
.\"
.\"
.SH AVAILABILITY
Command \fBkz update\fR is part of the \fBkz\fR package and is available on
Karel Zimmer's website
.br
<https://karelzimmer.nl/html/en/linux.html#scripts>.
